Add guide for monitors within a range (#9298)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/monitors/guide/monitor-for-value-within-a-range.md

---

> title: Monitor if a value is inside or outside a range

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Monitoring Ranges
```

kind: guide
---

## Overview

> If monitors supports to alert when a given value is above or below a given threshold, it is also possible to be notified if a given value is inside or outside of a given range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a monitor supports alerting when a given value is above or below a given threshold, it is possible to be notified if a given value is inside or outside of a range.
```

> ### Metric Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples
### Metric
```

> Let's imagine that a metric `a` reports discrete values from `0` to `10` representing a status and you want to be notified if the metric is not between `4` and `8`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metric `a` reports discrete values from `0` to `10` representing a status and you want to be notified if the metric is not between `4` and `8`.
```

> Mathematically, this is the same as saying that the difference between the metric and the center of the range (6) should never be more than 2. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mathematically, the difference between the metric and the center of the range (6) should never be more than 2. 
```

> `8 > a > 4` <=> `abs(6-a) < 2` <=> `abs(6-a) - 2 < 0`

Reviewer: I recommend putting this in a code block

Author: done :)

> `8 > a > 4` <=> `abs(6-a) < 2` <=> `abs(6-a) - 2 < 0`

Author: ```suggestion
```
8 > a > 4 <=> abs(6-a) < 2 <=> abs(6-a) - 2 < 0
```
```

- To be notified if the value is outside the range, the monitor condition should be `abs(6-a) - 2 > 0`.
- To be notified if the value is inside the range, the monitor condition should be `2 - abs(6-a) > 0`.

{{< img src="monitors/faq/monitor_range.png" alt="metric monitor on a range"  >}}

> ### Theoretical Example 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Theoretical
```

> Let's assume the range is defined by `x > a > y` with `a` the metric in question. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A range is defined by `x > a > y` with `a` being the metric in question. 
```

- To be notified if the value is inside the range, the monitor condition should be: `abs((x-y/2) - a) - (x-y)/2 > 0`.
- To be notified if the value is outside the range, the monitor condition should be: `(x-y)/2 - abs((x-y/2) - a) > 0`.

> [Reach out to the Datadog support team][1] if you have any questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][1].
```
